Šime, good afternoon.
I am grateful that you came
to our show and decided
to share some tidbits
from your rich career with us.
You recently said
goodbye to football,
and my first question is,
how are you? How is your health?
And what condition
is your body in?
Good afternoon, it's a great
pleasure for me to be here
and talk about football
and my personal life,
during my career
and after it.
I can only say
everything is different now.
For many years, sports came
first, but now after my career,
I have more time
for other things.
I have a lot to say,
but in general, I am satisfied.
Following the media, I noticed
that you've started working as a manager.
Is that true, or is it
only partially true?
Tell us more about it.
I have a strong desire
to pursue that career
and become a football agent.
I want to stay connected
to those players and progress,
as it's something new.
It's a process that needs
to start from scratch,
to be learned and improved upon.
It's not unfamiliar to me
since, when I started
playing football, I also
started from zero.
However, the great experience
I've gained throughout my career
gives me the confidence
to sit on the other side of the table
and be competent
in this role as well.
I am aware that it takes time,
and we, former athletes,
myself included,
need to educate ourselves.
That's what I'm striving for,
but I'm not rushing.
I’m taking it step by step.
Let’s go back to the beginning:
your childhood, your early years.
When I found out you were born
in my town, Rijeka,
it surprised me. You later
explained it was due
to certain circumstances.
Tell us more about your early childhood
and your memories
of Zadar and the sea.
Those were difficult times,
it was during the war.
Tell us more about that.
-It was nice.
My mother gave birth to me
in Rijeka during the war.
We had some relatives in Zadar,
and my mother gave birth to me there
because that’s what
my parents decided.
That’s why my documents say
I was born in Rijeka.
People often associate me with Rijeka,
but there’s nothing more
to it than just
being born there.
After that, I grew up in Zadar,
like any Dalmatian boy who felt called
to sports, particularly to football.
Football was inevitable
for me; it was my everyday life,
playing in the streets,
which isn’t so common anymore.
Today, fewer and fewer children
play outside. They’re more...
We all play video games.
Exactly. I’m happy
that I had that experience,
although it didn’t last long.
After I started playing football at seven,
there was less and less time
for those typical childhood activities.
Some of those boyish pastimes
and a normal way of life faded.
When I was my peers’ age,
football didn’t allow me
to do that. However,
I wasn’t burdened by it at the time
because football was the most
important thing to me.
It made me happy.
It wasn’t hard for me to sacrifice
so many things other boys my age enjoyed
because football was
what made me the happiest.
Tell me, how did you, growing up
in Zadar, a city known for basketball,
decide to play football?
I also heard you played handball.
Is that true?
-Yes, it’s true.
When I was in elementary school,
my PE teacher organized a team
to represent the school
in a city competition.
I played for my school at that time
on the left wing. -Left wing?
Yes, considering I’m right-handed,
I played in the same position as you.
I want to thank you for choosing
a different sport; it’s better that way.
It was a phenomenal experience.
Speaking of handball, I must mention
that I was a huge fan
of the Croatian handball national team,
which you were a part of.
That was also a big part
of my childhood
and growing up.
It brings out a lot of emotions
and is ultimately connected
to my career
in the national football team.
Every sport that represented
our homeland gave us all a spark,
and for those of us who grew up
in football and basketball,
we were able to carry
that emotion forward.
Energy is constantly moving,
it never goes away.
When did you realize
you were a good player?
You had to realize that at some point.
It certainly didn't happen at an early age.
But when you were 13 or 14 years old,
Dinamo and Hajduk were interested in you.
You must have been talented.
During my time at the football club
Zadar and performances after that,
at the age of 13, I was a guest at two
tournaments while playing for Hajduk.
I played on the right wing.
In that Darko Mateš tournament
at the Dragovoljac field,
I was the best player.
After that, we went to Osijek,
where we also won first place.
I saw myself then as a Hajduk player.
For me, it was something special
to put on the jersey and listen
to the fans' songs on the bus.
It was something special for me.
However, then there was a twist.
How did it happen that at one point
you were supposed to play for Hajduk,
and after three days
you went to Dinamo?
I don't want to talk about the names.
-We will not mention names.
But the first information I received
from my father was:
"Son, Hajduk is off."
I played in two tournaments
and even packed up in the evening.
My father and I packed our things
and said we would come in the morning.
I came to the stadium
to become a Hajduk player.
However, that evening, Hajduk
played a European match.
I remember my father
telling me there was none of that.
He was giving me as much information
as he felt I was ready to accept.
How do you tell a 14-year-old boy
from Dalmatia: "You are not going"?
Okay, let's move on.
From Zadar, a small town by the sea,
you moved to Zagreb.
What were your first
experiences in Zagreb like?
What was it like to come to Zagreb?
I went to Zagreb with the goal
that I would succeed there
and that I could do it.
However, at 14 years old,
I was not aware of everything
that was about to happen.
And the weight of it all.
-Maybe it's better that way.
Yes, it's better. We were
in the dorm at Maksimir.
All the players from the club
used to go there because
it was the dormitory where we lived.
I spent six months there, and I really
can't complain that anything was wrong.
I remember joking
about how we were doing.
I actually wanted to say
how hard it was for me.
I didn't want to say anything bad about
the dorm where I stayed for six months.
On the contrary,
I think the best of it.
I think it was a beautiful experience,
as difficult as it was.
I have a billion anecdotes to tell you.
Five or six of us slept in a room,
and the regime was like in the army.
In the dorm? -Every morning
we got up at 07:25, 07:20 or 07:30,
I don't remember exactly.
Of the six or five of us
who were in the room,
the number always varied.
every week, one of us was in charge
of cleaning everyone's rooms.
You did it for seven days a week.
Every room, every section
had a teacher who came
and checked how we did it.
So, Šime Vrsaljko cleans on
such and such a date.
I would get up in the morning,
make the beds, put things away.
Then the teacher would
come in and evaluate me.
It lasted for about six months.
And then you moved
to private accommodation,
where everything
seemed more normal.
Yes, I moved quite a few times.
Five or six times.
Is it because of unpaid bills or...?
-No, God forbid.
Or did you not like the apartment?
Every one of those properties
where I lived during that time,
until I was 18 or 19 years old,
has its own story that is dear to
my heart and that I will never forget.
That certainly helped you while growing
up because, I assume, that was during
the start of your career when your
financial situation wasn't the best.
It must have been tough. -That was all
part of the process I had to go through.
I think kids who leave home so early on
in their lives must grow up much faster.
That happened to me. It's not easy.
Growing up in the blink of an eye
doesn't mean that everything just gets
sorted out. It means you will go through
many stressful situations and must learn
very quickly. Amongst those situations
are also some bad influences.
After everything,
you get a nice makeover that prepares
you for everything else coming your way.
You were in the younger categories for
about 5 to 6 years while simultaneously
being in the national teams
for them, right?
It took you a long time
to get to the first team, right?
It took you about 5 to 6 years... -Five.
-You debuted at 18 or 19 years old.
At 17 years... -What was that
period like? Those five years?
Did you start doubting yourself?
-Yes. -Yes? -Yes.
I practically discovered that I was the
right-back when I was 17,5 years old.
You just discovered your position then.
-When I was 14, 15, 16 years old...
You were wandering...
-...I was playing cadet football.
I was a defensive midfielder,
stopper, and right-wing.
I was on the national team
as a left-back. At one point,
I was in a situation where I would be
playing as a defensive midfielder,
and people would say that
I wasn't the best at it
and that I didn't have the talent
I was presenting to everyone.
I felt that truly.
Those people were far from being wrong
when we look at my performances.
I reached my maximum but
learned a lot from every position.
However, when I was younger, I already
played for the under-19 national team,
where, for the first time, I felt what
it was like to play a back position
and get a sense
of what I wanted. -Yes.
At the time, Mr. Ivan Gudelj put me in
as a left-back because I would play
with players up to 2 years
older than me when I was younger.
At that time, they lacked this position,
and he said: "You are coming back here."
I liked it, I felt free, I was good at it.
However, I returned to the club
to play in my old position
and felt something was off.
That was going on until... Meanwhile,
I signed a contract with Dinamo.
I was about 17,5 or 18 years old when I
had a professional contract with Dinamo,
but I wondered what my next step was.
Thank god I had my parents,
my gut feeling,
the man who, alongside my coach,
brought me to Dinamo, Božidar Šekić,
and Jozo Bandić by my side.
He was my coach for a long time
and helped shape me as a person
and player. To get back to Božidar,
he was president of the club Lokomotiva
and the man who brought me to Dinamo.
When I was 17,5 years old, while
Lokomotiva was playing their first
Croatian League, he asked me if I would
come in as a loan player for a year.
And I said I would do it.
-Without thinking it through? -Yes.
From Dinamo...  -Yes.
-From a better club to a worse one?
I wasn't going to join the first team
for Dinamo... - Listen to this, kids!
I went to club Lokomotiva. If it
wasn't for that team, for Lokomotiva,
I think my career would go in
a completely different direction.
Really? Do you think
it was that important?
The team captain at the time, currently
the coach of the football club Rijeka,
Željko Sopić, alongside Nino Bule,
were already tough players
and were helping us younger players.
That's just how things were.
I came in as a defensive midfielder.
-And Sopić was playing that position?
Sopić was playing that position, etc.
That existing structure was small
but united, and Roy Ferenčina,
the current Slaven Belupo football club
coach, was a part of it.
After approximately ten practices, after
talking with Bule, Željko, and Božidar,
the Lokomotiva football club coach
who approved this, Roy Ferenčina said:
"We will put him as a right-back."
And that's it?
-That's how it started.
And that's how you returned
to Dinamo as a right-back?
That is when my career as a right-back
started. Up until that point,
nobody ever put me in that position.
I felt left-back position calling me.
I always wondered what it would be like
if I played on the right,
where my dominant leg was naturally
moving. -Yes. -I was managing just fine.
If it wasn't for Lokomotiva
and those six months of playing,
and if it wasn't for that ambient
and those wonderful people
who recognized that, then Dinamo
would not have taken me back.
No what-ifs... What I truly felt
at that moment was that I could only be
beneficial to the team in that position.
Everything I achieved in that position
later on was thanks to the Lokomotiva
football club, which gave me a chance.
Do you remember your debut
in HNL? What was it like?
I remember...
It wasn't very pleasant.
I remember even having cramps. It was
all psychologically stressful for me.
That year, you got your first title.
Is that right? Croatian Championship.
Your first title. You won... -Four.
-Dinamo was untouchable back then.
You won four titles. What was
the feeling for that first title?
Was there a celebration in Zagreb,
or was that just something normal for you?
How do you remember
that first championship?
Or maybe that was considered
something normal at that time...
Yes, it was a mix... It wasn't that
unusual in Zagreb to win championships
with such a huge point difference...
However, that was remarkable for me as
a child and a young man at that moment.
During that year, Kruno Jurčić was
the coach, and then Vahid Halilhodžić
came the following year. We all know
about the fallout with Zdravko
and how that ended... However,
I am interested in Halilhodžić
and his way of coaching. I heard
that he is a particular, unique coach.
How did that look like
from your perspective?
That was the first non-Croatian
coach that you came across...
You took the words out of my mouth.
-How did that look?
How do you remember those days?
From this perspective...
It was hard. Mr. Vahid Halilhodžić
is a coach of European caliber.
He is a coach who, when you
look at his contributions,
had his results as proof of his
abilities even after Dinamo.
When he came for the first time,
without undermining Krunoslav Jurčić,
who was a phenomenal coach...
I can freely say that he was a coach
with abundant knowledge
from whom I learned a lot.
However, as it goes in football,
the results weren't good,
so the coach changed.
-Classic...
That year, we also played
the European Championship.
We prepared in a completely
different way for those games.
The new coach had a very different
character from the previous one.
He was much tougher, and we weren't used
to that – coming from a 19-year-old me.
We really enjoyed working with him.
Despite how strict he was,
he was always fair in everything.
He has a higher level
of professionalism,
which he gained before joining Dinamo.
He translated that into his work with us
when he became the coach
for the football club Dinamo.
We were successful with him
and had many phenomenal moments.
There was a lot of laughter then.
There was a time when, every day
before practice, we would have to
stand in line, one by one, and shake
the coach's and all of his
assistant's hands.-All lined up?
Exactly, all lined up,
one by one, shaking his hand.
Good afternoon, coach. Good afternoon.
-There were times when he didn't know
a particular word
and would say it in French.
Sometimes, he would do it intentionally
when he saw that it made us laugh.
He would do it intentionally
to brighten up the mood.
I personally felt terrible when he left.
That year, you won
with a 17-point difference.
Looking back now, do you think
it was an advantage or a disadvantage
that Dinamo was so dominant at the time,
and it was almost a given that they
would win the championship?
They were overwhelmingly dominant.
Compared to today's situation,
now we have Rijeka, Hajduk, and Dinamo,
making it a much healthier situation
from a sporting perspective.
What do you think from
this perspective?
For me and for my career,
for the position I played at,
besides the matches
and the experience in Europe,
which during Vahid Halilhodžić's
period was phenomenal.
We beat Villarreal at home, etc.
We made an impression
as a serious European team.
Practices were different,
and we were prepared.
Everything was well-organized.
We felt secure.
It was a mix of youth
and the experience of older players,
so we looked the way we did.
However, I can speak
for myself and for my career.
What I experienced with my first
move abroad, to Italy.
The offensive football
we played at Dinamo,
and my later position...
-You moved to right-back.
Moving to the right-back position
and the short period I played there,
through football, made me realize
how much I didn't know how to defend.
Tactically I wasn't
at the level I thought I was.
Next came Genoa.
You're talking about the first impressions
in the top five leagues, Italy,
the difference between
Croatian and Italian football.
It's not about Croatian football, not to
underestimate the league at that time,
but rather the club I played for.
Because of the way we played.
It was offensive football.
My tendency as a right-back
was that I liked to move forward.
However, in one year we only
had a few games in the season
where I was in a situation to defend,
where I was being attacked,
It was all kind of...
I would say maybe it was a bad
choice of club? -No.
Coming from offensive Dinamo,
where you're always going
towards the goal,
you come to Genoa where,
against stronger clubs,
you have to defend.
It wasn’t a bad choice.
For me, the choice was perfect.
That only became clear later.
Why? Because in Italy
I improved in defense,
and through my time in Genoa,
and two years at Sassuolo where
I had a phenomenal coach.
Many were skeptical
about my move to Sassuolo.
You spent three years in Italy?
-Three. -One year at Genoa,
and two at Sassuolo.
-That's right.
First, learning defensive
movements on the pitch,
playing every
weekend at that level...
It becomes normal. - ...where you
can be threatened at any moment.
That pushed me, as well
as the club and coaches,
to show me things
I realized I didn’t know.
I was used to just going forward.
However, I came to a smaller club...
-You need to get back to defense too.
...which mostly defends,
football was played differently.
It was a nice experience
for me, but also difficult.
And surprising. -Yes.
-To see where you are.
I didn’t speak the language.
There’s also the fear of failure,
the first impression I would leave
as a player coming from a small country
and a weaker league compared to Serie A.
I can say that I improved
a lot during that one year.
It wasn’t easy. In that year,
Liverani was the coach.
After him, Gasperini came,
who had a completely different system.
I didn’t really get along with him.
-That was my next question.
How did the move to Sassuolo
happen? Now you’ve answered it.
People didn’t even know how to
pronounce the name of the club.
I followed the idea that I should
go to a club where I would play,
where I could keep improving...
-Playing time was key? -That’s right.
You were the best right-back
in the league there.
The best fullback in Serie A.
Were you sixth or seventh then?
-We played in Europe. -Bravo.
Then came the peak
of your career.
How did the offer from
Atletico Madrid come about?
I read that the sums were huge.
I never imagined in my wildest dreams
that I would go to Spain. -Really? -No.
If I were a footballer,
that would be my dream.
When I was at Dinamo,
they always talked about England.
Manchester, Arsenal.
Which could have happened,
but didn’t materialize.
Then Italy came out of nowhere.
-And England was in play? -Yes.
At that time, I was focused
only on England.
I was young, the newspapers
constantly wrote about me,
I wasn’t ready for all that information
and everything that was happening.
My desire at the time
was to go to Inter.
That didn’t happen and I
ended up at Atletico Madrid.
Not bad. -I don’t regret it,
but I never imagined myself there.
When I arrived...
How big was the difference?
Sassuolo - Atletico?
In everything? -Huge.
-Let’s forget Madrid and Spain.
The way the club operates.
-A huge difference.
I had the privilege to play
the last year at Vicente Calderon.
That was a great pleasure for me.
-Gave me goosebumps.
That stadium has such history,
and so much emotion.
I had the chance to be
there in its final year.
It was a big change
in my career in terms of work,
with a coach who accomplished
so much with Atletico Madrid.
As a player as well. -And his
playing career. -In every sense.
The way he worked and the staff he had.
I knew the training was intense.
What is he like as a person?
-Diego is a unique personality.
When I arrived, I felt,
I won’t say coldness,
but I felt an energy that told me
I had to prove myself.
Nowhere was the competition
like at Atletico Madrid.
No club was at the level
of Atletico Madrid.
The league I played in was
nowhere near the Spanish league.
The clubs I faced
in the Spanish league,
not to underestimate the clubs in Italy,
which was also a huge experience.
A totally different concept of the
league itself and the way it’s played,
and the specific style of play of
Atletico Madrid and Diego Simeone,
his football is unique
in its own way.
He set it up in his own way,
and it took time
for me to adapt and accept everything.
That requires a lot of work, patience,
and a strong mind. Why?
For the first time in my life,
I’m encountering three
practices a day.
During preparations?
-During preparations.
In that period, for a week,
you have 2-3 practices.
That means, when you
have two, it’s tough.
Preparations are very demanding.
A completely different way of working.
In terms of the gym, running,
tactics, and the pressure itself.
The closeness when
performing any exercise.
They are always present. -There is always
noise, pressure, and nervousness.
It’s like a bomb full of energy
that can explode at any moment.
It’s constant like that.
That’s the pressure
that is consciously
or unconsciously created,
but it forces you to always
be at this level.
At every practice?
-That’s right.
There were practices when there
was a bit of relaxation, but rarely.
However, at that time, I was faced
with three training sessions a day,
which means you wake up
at six in the morning.
The first practice is at 7:25.
You go to the golf course.
And you run. -You run there.
-That’s where the work happens.
When that practice ends,
we go for breakfast.
The second practice is
at 12:30 in the gym.
And the third practice is
in the afternoon.
Did he perhaps play handball
in his youth? -He might have.
You had to adapt to all of that.
Before my arrival at Atletico Madrid,
there always was play, play, play.
At Atletico Madrid,
for the first time, I didn’t play.
I couldn’t accept that.
That’s a burden in your head,
and it’s tough.
Angry, young and
inexperienced in many things.
I won’t say impulsive, but simply
it was devastating for me.
I won’t say there was injustice,
I just fought for my
playing time as an athlete.
I’ll tell you an anecdote.
I didn't play in the first two or
three games of the championship.
You weren't in the lineup at all?
Not even on the bench?
I was on the stands.
That first year when you came?
-That's right.
The first game I was on the stands.
I was on the bench for the second game.
Played the third in the first 11.
And then I go to the stands again...
Then I went to talk to him.
I said, "Boss, it's hard for me
to play like that...
Stands, then bench, then I play.
It was difficult to adapt to it
and catch the rhythm...
Catch up with your
teammates at that moment
to feel like a part of
the game completely.
And he tells me: "It is possible
that you will be in the stands
for the next match, but after
that you will be in the first eleven.
Because, from the stands,
you can better see how we play.
That was the explanation?
That's right. So, from the stands
I can see player movements better.
So I got an answer
that I didn't expect at all.
I looked at him and said,
"Okay, I accept any decision."
Was he joking with you
or did he really mean it?
I believe he really thought so.
And looking back now,
I think it makes sense,
because when you are up
in the stands, and if you follow,
you can see the movements better.
You can see each position better.
I'm new, I just came...
-It's a better perspective.
I'm young, I need time to
catch the rhythm and so on.
However, after that period
of 6 months of training and playing...
Of adjustment... -Yes,
and my struggles for position,
I finally succeeded. But there was also
screaming and crying at practices,
all kinds of things. However,
it was strictly professional.
I accepted that and decided
to fight for my position.
Eventually, when I started
playing regularly
he remembered that
he could trust me.
That happened in the first season?
-Yes, that's right.
It was the end of the 12th month,
the beginning of the first
or something like that.
He trusted me more and more.
He raised me the way he
wanted, which helped me a lot.
In general, the cooperation and everything
I went through with him was phenomenal.
When I started playing,
I think  it was the third month
or the end of the second,
there was this fatal fall
in the game against
Sevilla at the Calderon.
I tore my posterior cruciate ligament
practically in the 30th second of the game.
We started from the center,
the long pass went to me.
I was young, overjoyed
because I was playing,
in a burst of energy...
The fans were there too.
I had a duel where my posterior
cruciate ligament got injured.
I tried to get up,
but my leg remained blocked
and I couldn't even move.
At that moment, at the age of 25,
I experienced... -Serious injury.
Yes. I had to face something
that was completely foreign to me.
How did you feel those first few days?
The first information is that
you will not play for 8 months.
No. In the first days,
I went for a check-up.
I knew something was wrong
and that the knee was locked.
When I pull it aside, it goes back.
I realized something was wrong.
I was afraid of a cruciate
ligament injury because
I had seen many such injuries
during my career up to that point.
I kept saying:
"God, if only it wasn't
the cruciate ligaments.
If only it wasn't the anterior
cruciate ligament."
And it was much worse than that.
-Yes, much worse.
At the first examination,
they told me that it was
the anterior cruciate ligaments
and sent me home.  I went home.
Then I called Dr. Nemec
and told him: "Doctor, I'm fine.
I can squat, I'm fine."
And he says to me: "Does
it hurt when you take a step?
Something happened
inside, but I can squat.
All night I thought about
what was wrong with me.
Because they said it was
the anterior cruciate ligament
and I was in shock.
The next afternoon,
when I went for an examination,
they told me that it was indeed
a rupture of the
posterior cruciate ligament.
When I sighed, they asked me
what was wrong with me?
Because they said a partial rupture
of the posterior cruciate ligament
is not a terrible injury.
- No surgery needed, ideally.
"It's not that dangerous, players
can play with it without problems."
I said, "Great, great."
I took a break for 3 or 4 months.
I think the break lasted 3 months.
I went to therapy.
You were in Madrid the whole time?
-That's right.
Then I went to Zadar
with my godfather.
Marko Damjanović is actually
my child's godfather.
A man who has been
my friend for six years.
We met when my agony began.
So we just enjoyed ourselves.
In six years you have
managed to make friends.
Then I started working
with him in Zadar.
When we met, I told him about
the problem I had, because
I noticed that I couldn't sprint,
that my knee was blocked.
At the end of that season
in which I was injured,
Diego Simeone told me:
"I want you to be healthy at the
beginning of the next season.
So, you can only guess how it
was presented to him, but also to me.
It meant: "I want you
healthy for the preparations.
I don't have a partial,
but a complete rupture
of the posterior cruciate
ligament, my knee drops out.
In the case of anterior
cruciate ligament injury,
the arch falls forward,
and in the case of
a posterior cruciate ligament injury,
it falls backwards.
I could practically... -How is it
possible that this has not been
diagnosed in a club
like Atletico Madrid?
No, I don't want to attribute it
to the doctors.
I think that at that moment,
the fault was only mine,
because from my early youth I was
used to deal with all the problems
that I come across. I beat it.
That's how I experienced this too.
This is a partial rupture, I can beat
it, because it's nothing so terrible.
However, when I started
working with Marko that summer
I realized I had
a serious problem.
I don't have the same step anymore,
I don'thave the same speed,
I struggled. During the preparations,
I saw them looking at me
and quietly whispering:
"He's still hurting."
That year,and that's
the current season...
That year you won the UEFA Cup.
We won the UEFA Cup
and the World Cup is coming.
I am aware of that at the beginning
of the season. -You have to be ready.
Not knowing what problem I have,
I continue to play for a year.
At first it was a disaster,
I felt abnormal pains,
in the back of the knee.
However, no one told me at
the time: "Šime, a complete rupture
of the posterior cruciate
ligament requires surgery.
If you don't, your cartilage
will get damaged,
and when it does, it's done.
Some hard words were spoken
in some moments
when it comes to your illness.
Some media even
mentioned amputation.
Everything has reached
that level. -Yes.
They said not only that
you can't play,
but you can't even walk normally
and that you could stay
without a part of his body.
Yes, it was, but those
comments came later.
The World Cup went as it went.
That's a separate topic.
We'll leave that for last.
I wouldn't change anything
and if the same thing
happened again,
I would do it all over again.
After the World Cup,
I'm going to Inter.
It is again the realization
of a dream that I started in Italy.
I was given the opportunity
to realize it
and I accepted it wholeheartedly.
And in the first month
of that year, as an Inter player,
I decided for the surgery.
I felt the same way when
I stopped playing football
and when I went for surgery.
So it was purely your decision,
without any pressure?
You simply said:
"I can't do it anymore."
I couldn't take it anymore,
it didn't make sense.
Everything I did was torture.
It wasn't the same player anymore,
it wasn't the same pace,
it wasn't the same power.
My psychological and mental
preparations for match
with such a knee
made me weaker than others,
as much as I thought
I could handle it.
You can't just play
a year without an ACL.
The scans showed that
the cartilage had been consumed
to such an extent that it
practically almost exploded.
I made the decision
to have surgery
after which the recovery
lasted nine months.
After the surgery I came back
and continued to play.
After that, before each match,
I had to have an injection,
because I was experiencing
unbelievable pain.
During the operation they put in,
as they call it, a "hook".
It is an internal seam that they
take out after a certain time.
I'm back and playing, but nothing
is the same as it was.
Mobility is reduced
after that operation.
The step is not the same, but I'm back.
I looked good in some games.
I came back full of motivation,
desire and will, but corona is coming.
That got you too.
-After the corona, I'm coming back.
And during those mini-preparations,
I hurt my calf.
And then they say to me: "Great
Šime, when the leg is already
injured, let's take advantage of
the situation and take out the "hook".
They recommend me an Argentine
doctor in Madrid.
Although I had the feeling that it was
better to go to the doctor in Belgium,
who operated on me the first time.
I don't want to create tension,
I'm back.
There were tensions before,
during the period,
when I was in Atletico Madrid.
I didn't want to spite myself.
I'll let them decide.
And I will accept their decision.
They operated on me, removed
the hook and I returned home.
It was supposed to be a routine
operation, nothing special.
At home I have fever seven days.
When they took off the patch.
The inside of my knee is not healing,
there was a hole
and I could see the bone.
They are taking me back
to the doctor who operated on me.
I tell the doctor that
something is wrong.
I have a fever, I can't
sleep because of great pain.
I toss and turn on the bed at night.
When I bend my knee,
the blood goes into my sock.
Something is wrong.
He says: "Šime, that skin..."
And he sews up again.
I'm already angry and annoyed.
I can see something is wrong.
I get home, pull my leg. I want
to see if it will happen again?
It pops again and the blood
is in the sock.
I urgently call the doctor and tell
him that something is happening.
I have a hole in my knee and
blood is flowing continuously.
My knee has a strange color
and it's not okay.
They took me to the same doctor again.
He watches carefully and does this...
I say to him: "Tell me, doctor?"
"You have to have surgery," he says.
Two operations in ten days.
And an emergency operation.
I ask him what it is and he quietly
tells that it is an infection.
I said in amazement:
"What an infection, doctor?"
I come here for seven days.
I tell you something is wrong.
You stitch me up three times.
I've been here for seven days,
I could have lost my leg.
An emergency operation has been did
lest something serious happens.
The infection has spread quite a bit.
Through the operated cartilage
and everything you else.
They reacted at the last moment.
After that operation I lost 8-9 kg.
I was on morphine.
After that, I get into a situation
like when I had the first operation.
All over again? -That's right. I'm
losing 9 kg, morphine, antibiotics.
The biggest damage happened
during that infection.
The first operation
didn't make sense.
When the infection started,
everything went wrong.
In addition to that infection,
I also had a fourth operation.
There were adhesions
and other complications...
A sad story indeed.
-Honestly, it's not for me.
Now, from this perspective,
the UEFA Cup,
with the national team
the icing on the career,
and then comes the cooling.
-It's not like that.
How old were you then? 25-26?
-Well, 25.
Somewhere around the 28th,
everything unfolds.
For everything positive and negative,
the peak is in those years.
In my best years,
I lived through it all.
Yes, all those stresses... And then
your life hangs in the balance?
I don't regret a single day,
nor for the surgeries,
nor for the antibiotics, really.
I fought everything to the end.
Did you fight as hard as you could?
-I did my best.
Looking back, maybe I should have
stopped playing football earlier,
considering everything.
Let's talk about the crown
of your career.
Describe 2018 for me,
from the medal onward.
Forget everything before. I want to hear
about your welcome in Zagreb and Zadar.
Welcome of hope.
What was it like to live in Croatia
during those days and months? -Unreal.
I have to admit that I watched
every game. It was madness.
When I first looked
from this perspective,
the whole country was on its feet.
Everyone lived for those moments.
I can't imagine how it was for you.
I guess when you're inside,
you don't have a sense
of what  it's like outside.
But how was it when you arrived?
I remember the moment when
Dario Srna, the eternal captain,
who did so much for
the Croatian national team,
and the man with whom I shared
the same dressing room for a long time,
came to our hotel as a guest and
told us that we were not normal.
That we didn't know what was happening in
Croatia and what kind of euphoria it was.
That was the first time I realized...
-Something clicked in your head.
The information came to me because
we were isolated from everything.
Messages were coming in,
but we weren't focused on that.
And we didn't even have time.
We needed to be concentrated
on what was coming.
Our primary task was
to achieve the best possible result.
Everything that happened, happened.
It's over, and I'm coming back.
I don't know... that arrival in Zagreb.
Those fighet jets that flew by us.
It's hard to be aware of all that.
That euphoria, laughter,
and energy discharge.
It's just... -You still can't find
the right words?
And after five years,
the impressions are still strong.
It cannot be described.
It's something that happens
once in your life.
You live through that.
And carry it with you when
your mission in this world is finished.
It's hard to describe this with words,
that emotion, which happened
minute by minute,
in my body and in my head.
As you absorbed all that energy,
you thought you were on top?
Is it possible that so much
love was coming in?
You feel like you're going
to explode from happiness.
You don't know what to do.
You want to entertain those people.
You want to animate them; I don't know.
Simply, you feel that strong love
and energy...
It is really had to get
acknowledged, especially in Croatia.
You know how difficult it is
with the national team?
And what is our mentality?
What is that amount of love for
the Croatian national team?
The ladder was raised in 1998.
We lived with that.
And generations before us.
God looked at us, probably,
we deserved it in some way.
He knows it best.
-Of course. Šime, thank you.
The pleasure is mine.
-It's mine, too.
I wish you that never again
you get injured.
Not now, only in the morning.
-Good luck! -Thank you.